Day #9 - AI System Explication 2

AIBOs (Artificial Intelligence Robots), designed and produced by Sony, were a series of robotic pets first released in 1999. An estimated 150,000 models were sold for prices ranging from less than $600 to more than $2000. Models were introduced every year until 2005, when, in an effort to make the company more profitable, AIBO products were discontinued and customer support slowly withdrawn. Sony eventually ceased to provide any repairs or support for AIBO products in July of 2014. Initially designed and marketed for domestic entertainment purposes, these robots were also used for educational purposes and research into robotics and human-robot interaction. These iconic robots were mostly dog-like, although some were also influenced by lion-cubs and space explorers. Sony’s robotic pets were designed to “learn” by interacting with their environment, its owners, and other AIBOs. These robots were programmed to react to over a hundred voice commands and respond in a tonal language.
	The purpose of creating these AIs was both to create an entertaining companion for those who desired a pet but were unable or unwilling to care for it as well as to take the field of AI to the next level, placing robots in domestic settings, into the everyday lives of thousands of people. Those who used this system of AI, and the few that still have aging AIBO pets, had goals very much in line with those who produced them, centered around the idea of having pets that act perfectly and require a small amount of care. In the beginning of production, only people involved and interested in robots bought AIBOS, but it quickly expanded to a more general population. Now, those who have AIBOs have become emotionally attached to their pets and spend substantial time and money in their efforts to repair them and keep them running. Even after the creators of the AI system gave up on their initial goals, and abandoned the remaining AIBOS, their owners continued to use them. 
	From a knowledge representation standpoint, this AI system views the world through the lens of its sensors and its base of pre-programmed knowledge about the world, including voice commands and its tonal language. As the AIBO interacts with its environment, its owners, and other AIBOs, it “learns” more and more about the world around it, recognizing those it sees frequently, and improving its ability to accurately respond to commands. It interacts with its human owners on a daily basis, “learning” from them and obeying their commands. What the AI knows or assumes about the humans it interacts with depends on how they interact. First of all, certain commands could be associated with an owner while others would be associated more with a stranger. Also, AI might assume that all humans are good and are commanding it for a non-violent reason, whereas this might not always be the case.
	A hostile user or third party could subvert this system and use it to harass/injure others by commanding it in ways that could scare people. Since the robot is small and relatively harmless, this might only work with very young children. An extremely dedicated evil person could possibly hack into the software and edit code in order to harass its owners, but using this AI system for evil would be difficult.